Hi, my name is Brian Caffo, and
this is the second lecture on Shiny.
In this lecture, we're going to talk a
little bit about reactive expressions, and
you're going to code a Shiny app that
actually uses reactive expression.
Up to this point, we've done a little bit
by creating an interactive graphic, but
we need to go a little bit further so
that our server calculations are more
complicated, and can do more meaningful
calculations from our input, spit out more
meaningful results, do more interesting
graphs, and that sort of thing.
And that leads us to
the topic of reactivity.
So a reactive expression is basically,
like Sean put it here,
it's like a recipe that manipulates inputs
from Shiny and then returns a value.
And it introduces some
slightly unorthodox R coding.
Of course, it's all proper R code,
but nonetheless it introduces some
slightly unorthodox R coding because of
the specific intricacies of Shiny, itself.
So if you want isolated
expressions that respond to
input from your ui.r,
your Shiny.i function,
then they need to be wrapped
as a reactive function, here.
And let me just go
through an example here.
If I have two input boxes,
one labelled box one and
one labeled box two,
in my shiny server function, okay,
suppose I just want to add
the results from box one and
box two, and
I want to assign that to a variable.
But I want that to be redone every
time the input values change.
Then this needs to be in
a reactive statement.
So here I have my output of
the calculation, calc_sum.
It's assigned, reactive.
And notice there's these
slightly unique notation here,
again, where we have both
the functional parentheses there,
but then also this curly braces that
has to contain the reactive statements.
So remember to do that and then remember,
of course, to close everything, okay.
And then that,
we put in input$box1 + input$box2.
Now this calc sum, that variable,
well, it's not a variable,
it's actually a function,
will actually adapt as we input
the new values into box1 and box2.
We'll go through a coding
example in a little bit.
Here, you can see that to reference
calc_sum() later on you're going to
reference it as a function.
And we'll just go through
now a little bit an example,
a relatively simple example, of creating
a reactive environment in Shiny.
And at this point,
once you go through this example,
I think you'll have almost a full tool
set to start making your own Shiny
applications that'll handle just about
anything that you would need to do.
So, for example, if you created
a machine learning algorithm,
you want a user to put in a set of inputs,
and it'll spit out your prediction and
maybe, hopefully,
a prediction error along with it.
Now you'll be able to do that.
It'll be able to do those
calculations on the fly.
And then, toward the end of the lecture,
we'll show how to make it reactive in such
a way that the user actually
has to press a button.
So conditionally reactive, so
the user has to press the button in order
for it to actually execute the command.
So this is helpful if you have
some algorithms in your server
that really take a lot of time.
Okay, now we'll go through the code
demonstration where we're going to
use a lot of reactive expressions.